Lens_Cheatsheet.md, before:

# Lens - A Cheatsheet

We will be using lenses in the content of the course, and we encourage
you to use them as well. We'll mostly use lenses in their simplest
form, as generalised "getters" and "setters". We may also use prisms,
which can be thought of as a combination of a constructor and
first-class pattern.

This document will contain examples and explanations to provide an
easily digestible to the lenses that are used in this course:

## Generating Lenses

We can generate lenses for the following Haskell record using `{-#
LANGUAGE TemplateHaskell #-}` and one line of code:

```haskell
data Foo = Foo
  { _fooFieldA :: Text
  , _fooFieldB :: Int
  }

$(makeLenses ''Foo) -- Make me some lenses!
```

This will generate the following lenses for us:

```haskell
fooFieldA :: Lens' Foo Text
fooFieldB :: Lens' Foo Int
```

These lenses pick out a `Text`/`Int` from a `Foo`, or can be used to
update a `Text`/`Int` inside a `Foo`. Note that the lenses are named
after field names on `Foo`, minus the initial `_` prefix. This
convention is expected by `makeLenses`. It is possible to configure
it, but few do.

## Using Lenses

Using the lenses we generated earlier and given the following value:

```haskell
let foo = Foo "Fred" 33
```

### As 'getters'

| # | Function/Operator                            | Example                                  |
|---|----------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| 1 | `view`                                       | `view fooFieldA foo           == "Fred"` |
| 2 | `^.` (infix `view`)                          | `foo ^. fooFieldA             == "Fred"` |
| 3 | `to` (turn a nomal function into a "getter") | `foo ^. fooFieldA . to length == 4`      |

#### Non-lens equivalents:

| #   | Example                             |
|-----|-------------------------------------|
| 1,2 | `_fooFieldA foo          == "Fred"` |
| 3   | `length (_fooFieldA foo) == 4`      |

### As 'setters'

| # | Function/Operator  | Example                                               |
|---|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| 1 | `set`              | `set fooFieldA "Sally" foo         == Foo "Sally" 33` |
| 2 | `.~` (infix `set`) | `foo & fooFieldA .~ "Sally"        == Foo "Sally" 33` |
| 3 | `+~`               | `foo & fooFieldB +~ 3              == Foo "Fred" 36`  |
| 4 | `over`             | `over fooFieldA (fmap toUpper) foo == Foo "FRED" 33`  |

#### Non-lens equivalents:

|   # | Example                                                                |
|-----|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1,2 | `foo { _fooFieldA = "Sally" }                       == Foo "Sally" 33` |
|   3 | `foo { _fooFieldB = _fooFieldB foo + 3 }            == Foo "Fred" 36`  |
|   4 | `foo { _fooFieldB = fmap toUpper (_fooFieldA foo) } == Foo "FRED" 33`  |

# Prisms

Prisms are like lenses for sum types. Instead of focusing on exactly
one value, a `Prism' s a` will extract at most one `a` from `s`.

## Generating Prisms

Prisms are generated using the `makePrisms` template haskell function:

```haskell
data Bar = Baz Foo | Quux Bool
$(makePrisms ''Bar)
```

This will generate prisms `_Baz :: Prism' Bar Foo` and `_Quux ::
Prism' Bar Bool`.

### Using Prisms

Given the two prisms above, and the following values:

```haskell
let
  baz = Baz (Foo "Fred" 33)
  quux = Quux True
```

#### Previewing

| # | Function/Operator        | Example                                    |
|---|--------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| 1 | `preview`                | `preview _Baz baz == Just (Foo "Fred" 33)` |
| 2 | `preview`                | `preview _Baz quux == Nothing`             |
| 3 | `(^?)` (infix `preview`) | `quux ^? _Quux == Just True`               |
| 4 | `(^?)` (infix `preview`) | `baz ^? _Quux == Nothing`                  |

#### Reviewing

| # | Function/Operator      | Example                     |
| 1 | `review`               | `review _Quux True == quux` |
| 2 | `(#)` (infix `review`) | `_Quux # True == quux`      |

# Composing

`Lens`es (and other optics like `Prism`s) compose with each other
using `(.)` giving an effect that looks a lot like dot-notation in
other languages. This composition is where the payoffs really start,
as it's possible to reach deep into data structures without doing many
levels of `case`-expressions:

```haskell
baz ^? _Baz . fooFieldA == Just "Fred"
```

Commit message:

State that Lens extracts one thing from a structure

Lens_Cheatsheet.md, after:

# Lens - A Cheatsheet

We will be using lenses in the content of the course, and we encourage
you to use them as well. A `Lens' s a` accesses exactly one `a` within
some structure `s`.

This document will contain enough examples to provide a cheat-sheet
for the lens/prism-using code in this course:

## Generating Lenses

We can generate lenses for the following Haskell record using `{-#
LANGUAGE TemplateHaskell #-}` and one line of code:

```haskell
data Foo = Foo
  { _fooFieldA :: Text
  , _fooFieldB :: Int
  }

$(makeLenses ''Foo) -- Make me some lenses!
```

This will generate the following lenses for us:

```haskell
fooFieldA :: Lens' Foo Text
fooFieldB :: Lens' Foo Int
```

These lenses pick out a `Text`/`Int` from a `Foo`, or can be used to
update a `Text`/`Int` inside a `Foo`. Note that the lenses are named
after field names on `Foo`, minus the initial `_` prefix. This
convention is expected by `makeLenses`. It is possible to configure
it, but few do.

## Using Lenses

Using the lenses we generated earlier and given the following value:

```haskell
let foo = Foo "Fred" 33
```

### As 'getters'

| # | Function/Operator                            | Example                                  |
|---|----------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| 1 | `view`                                       | `view fooFieldA foo           == "Fred"` |
| 2 | `^.` (infix `view`)                          | `foo ^. fooFieldA             == "Fred"` |
| 3 | `to` (turn a nomal function into a "getter") | `foo ^. fooFieldA . to length == 4`      |

#### Non-lens equivalents:

| #   | Example                             |
|-----|-------------------------------------|
| 1,2 | `_fooFieldA foo          == "Fred"` |
| 3   | `length (_fooFieldA foo) == 4`      |

### As 'setters'

| # | Function/Operator  | Example                                               |
|---|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| 1 | `set`              | `set fooFieldA "Sally" foo         == Foo "Sally" 33` |
| 2 | `.~` (infix `set`) | `foo & fooFieldA .~ "Sally"        == Foo "Sally" 33` |
| 3 | `+~`               | `foo & fooFieldB +~ 3              == Foo "Fred" 36`  |
| 4 | `over`             | `over fooFieldA (fmap toUpper) foo == Foo "FRED" 33`  |

#### Non-lens equivalents:

|   # | Example                                                                |
|-----|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1,2 | `foo { _fooFieldA = "Sally" }                       == Foo "Sally" 33` |
|   3 | `foo { _fooFieldB = _fooFieldB foo + 3 }            == Foo "Fred" 36`  |
|   4 | `foo { _fooFieldB = fmap toUpper (_fooFieldA foo) } == Foo "FRED" 33`  |

# Prisms

Prisms are like lenses for sum types. Instead of focusing on exactly
one value, a `Prism' s a` will extract at most one `a` from `s`.

## Generating Prisms

Prisms are generated using the `makePrisms` template haskell function:

```haskell
data Bar = Baz Foo | Quux Bool

$(makePrisms ''Bar)
```

This will generate prisms `_Baz :: Prism' Bar Foo` and `_Quux ::
Prism' Bar Bool`.

### Using Prisms

Given the two prisms above, and the following values:

```haskell
let
  baz = Baz (Foo "Fred" 33)
  quux = Quux True
```

#### Previewing

| # | Function/Operator        | Example                                    |
|---|--------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| 1 | `preview`                | `preview _Baz baz == Just (Foo "Fred" 33)` |
| 2 | `preview`                | `preview _Baz quux == Nothing`             |
| 3 | `(^?)` (infix `preview`) | `quux ^? _Quux == Just True`               |
| 4 | `(^?)` (infix `preview`) | `baz ^? _Quux == Nothing`                  |

#### Reviewing

| # | Function/Operator      | Example                     |
| 1 | `review`               | `review _Quux True == quux` |
| 2 | `(#)` (infix `review`) | `_Quux # True == quux`      |

# Composing

`Lens`es (and other optics like `Prism`s) compose with each other
using `(.)` giving an effect that looks a lot like dot-notation in
other languages. This composition is where the payoffs really start,
as it's possible to reach deep into data structures without doing many
levels of `case`-expressions:

```haskell
baz ^? _Baz . fooFieldA == Just "Fred"
```
