level02/README.md, before:

# Level 02 - Pre-conditions & Commands with arguments

So far they have all separate parts of our model. There are no dependencies so
Hedgehog is free to generate and shrink as it chooses, any sequence of commands
is as valid as any other.

But we need a way to ensure that some commands will only run when it makes sense
to do so. Otherwise the randomised aspect of our tests is no longer beneficial
and we're left with a non-deterministic test suite. All because some commands
have been included in an absurd order.

We will solve this by using the `Require` callback to inform hedgehog that a
given command is to be included. We will use the `takeMug` function as an
example.

Including a `Command` for this function without the appropriate pre-condition
would result in our tests passing only when this command was included after a
call to `addMug`, with no other `takeMug` being called in between.

However if we expanded our model to track the status the mug. Then we could
prevent the `takeMug` command from being included as a valid command unless our
criteria had been satisified. Later on we'll go into more detail about how
adding these smaller "state transitions" to your model can make things easier.

The goals for this level are to implement the following commands:

### Add Mug

We add a function using the oddly named function:

```haskell
addMug :: MonadIO m => Machine -> m (Either MachineError ())
```

### Take Mug

Similarly, we may remove a mug by calling the following function:

```haskell
takeMug :: MonadIO m => Machine -> m (Either MachineError Mug)
```

### Collapse the `DrinkType` commands to one

We're able to express the individual commands for setting the different types of
drink in a more condensed manner. Collapse the following three commands:

* `cSetDrinkHotChocolate`
* `cSetDrinkCoffee`
* `cSetDrinkTea`

To one single command:

* `cSetDrinkType`

Commit message:

Rewording 02/05
Level02 needed help as it had missing words and didn't seem to convey enough
information.

Level05, I removed some of the guidance about what to do and have pointed out
some useful functions but left it at that. With a note about our reason for
doing this.

level02/README.md, after:

# Level 02 - Pre-conditions & Commands with arguments

We've built some simple `Command`s to ensure we can keep selecting different
drink types and our machine doesn't explode. Yay. Note that because of how we've
built these `Command`s, any sequence of `Command`s is as valid as any other.
Which is okay when particular actions may be run regardless of what state the
system is in.

What about when a `Command` does not make sense to run unless the system has
reached a particular state? If we do not manage this, the randomised aspect of
our tests is no longer beneficial. We're left with a non-deterministic test
suite because some `Command`s _might_ be included in an absurd order.

We solve this by using the `Require` callback to inform Hedgehog that this
`Command` is valid in the current sequence. We will use the `takeMug` function
as an example.

Including a `Command` for this function without the appropriate pre-condition
would result in our tests passing only when this `Command` was included after a
call to `addMug`, with no other `takeMug` being called in between.

However if we expanded our model with a value to track the status of the mug.
Then we can prevent the `takeMug` `Command` from being included unless our
criteria have been satisified.

Later on we'll go into more detail about how adding these smaller "state
transitions" to your model can make things easier.

The goals for this level are to implement the following commands:

### Add Mug

We add a mug using the oddly named function:

```haskell
addMug :: MonadIO m => Machine -> m (Either MachineError ())
```

### Take Mug

Similarly, we may remove a mug with the function:

```haskell
takeMug :: MonadIO m => Machine -> m (Either MachineError Mug)
```

### Collapse the `DrinkType` commands to one

We're able to express the individual `Command`s for setting the different types
of drink in a more condensed manner. Collapse the following three `Command`s:

* `cSetDrinkHotChocolate`
* `cSetDrinkCoffee`
* `cSetDrinkTea`

To a single `Command`:

* `cSetDrinkType`
